HELM.md, before:

# Installing ArgoCD with GlueOps Extension using Helm Chart

This guide shows how to install ArgoCD with the GlueOps extension using the official ArgoCD Helm chart. This is the **recommended** installation method.

## Quick Start

Run the automated installation script:

```bash
./install-with-helm.sh
```

This will handle everything automatically. For manual installation, see below.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster
- `kubectl` configured
- `helm` v3.x installed
- `curl` for downloading the extension

## Installation Steps

### 1. Add ArgoCD Helm Repository

```bash
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm repo update
```

### 2. Download the Extension

```bash
curl -L -o extension.tar.gz https://github.com/venkatamutyala/argocd-glueops-extension/releases/download/v1.0.0/extension.tar.gz
```

### 3. Create Extension ConfigMap

```bash
kubectl create namespace argocd
kubectl create configmap extension-tar \
  --from-file=extension.tar.gz=extension.tar.gz \
  -n argocd
```

### 4. Install ArgoCD with Extension

```bash
helm install argocd argo/argo-cd \
  -f helm-values.yaml \
  -n argocd \
  --wait
```

### 5. Wait for ArgoCD to be Ready

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready pod -l app.kubernetes.io/name=argocd-server -n argocd --timeout=300s
```

### 6. Get Admin Password

```bash
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d && echo
```

### 7. Access ArgoCD

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n argocd svc/argocd-server 8080:443
```

Then open `https://localhost:8080` in your browser (accept the self-signed certificate).

## Verification

Check that the extension is installed:

```bash
kubectl exec -n argocd $(kubectl get pods -n argocd -l app.kubernetes.io/name=argocd-server -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') \
  -- ls -lh /tmp/extensions/resources/app-links-extension/extension.js
```

## Updating the Extension

To update to a new version:

1. Download the new extension:
   ```bash
   curl -L -o extension.tar.gz https://github.com/venkatamutyala/argocd-glueops-extension/releases/download/v1.0.1/extension.tar.gz
   ```

2. Update the ConfigMap:
   ```bash
   kubectl create configmap extension-tar \
     --from-file=extension.tar.gz=extension.tar.gz \
     -n argocd \
     --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f -
   ```

3. Restart ArgoCD server:
   ```bash
   kubectl rollout restart deployment argocd-server -n argocd
   ```

## Uninstallation

```bash
helm uninstall argocd -n argocd
kubectl delete configmap extension-tar -n argocd
```

## Configuration

All configuration is done via `helm-values.yaml`:

- **Proxy Extension**: Enabled via `configs.params.server.enable.proxy.extension: "true"`
- **Backend URL**: Configured in `server.config.extension.config` (hardcoded to Postman Echo)
- **RBAC**: Configured in `configs.rbac.policy.csv`
- **Extension Installer**: Configured in `server.initContainers`
- **Volumes**: Configured in `server.volumes` and `server.volumeMounts`

## Troubleshooting

### Extension not loading

1. Check the init container logs:
   ```bash
   kubectl logs -n argocd <argocd-server-pod> -c argocd-extension-installer
   ```

2. Verify the ConfigMap exists:
   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap extension-tar -n argocd
   ```

3. Check if extension file exists in pod:
   ```bash
   kubectl exec -n argocd <argocd-server-pod> -- ls -lh /tmp/extensions/resources/app-links-extension/
   ```

### Proxy extension not working

1. Verify proxy is enabled:
   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap argocd-cmd-params-cm -n argocd -o yaml | grep proxy
   ```

2. Check backend configuration:
   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap argocd-cm -n argocd -o yaml | grep -A 5 extension.config
   ```

Commit message:

Install extension directly from GitHub release URL - no ConfigMap needed

HELM.md, after:

# Installing ArgoCD with GlueOps Extension using Helm Chart

This guide shows how to install ArgoCD with the GlueOps extension using the official ArgoCD Helm chart. This is the **recommended** installation method.

## Quick Start

Run the automated installation script:

```bash
./install-with-helm.sh
```

This will handle everything automatically. For manual installation, see below.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes cluster
- `kubectl` configured
- `helm` v3.x installed
- `curl` for downloading the extension

## Installation Steps

### 1. Add ArgoCD Helm Repository

```bash
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm repo update
```

### 2. Install ArgoCD with Extension

The extension is automatically downloaded from GitHub releases during installation. No manual download or ConfigMap creation needed!

```bash
kubectl create namespace argocd
```

```bash
helm install argocd argo/argo-cd \
  -f helm-values.yaml \
  -n argocd \
  --wait
```

### 5. Wait for ArgoCD to be Ready

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready pod -l app.kubernetes.io/name=argocd-server -n argocd --timeout=300s
```

### 4. Get Admin Password

```bash
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d && echo
```

### 5. Access ArgoCD

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n argocd svc/argocd-server 8080:443
```

Then open `https://localhost:8080` in your browser (accept the self-signed certificate).

## Verification

Check that the extension is installed:

```bash
kubectl exec -n argocd $(kubectl get pods -n argocd -l app.kubernetes.io/name=argocd-server -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') \
  -- ls -lh /tmp/extensions/resources/app-links-extension/extension.js
```

## Updating the Extension

To update to a new version:

1. Update the `EXTENSION_URL` in `helm-values.yaml` to point to the new release:
   ```yaml
   - name: EXTENSION_URL
     value: https://github.com/venkatamutyala/argocd-glueops-extension/releases/download/v1.0.1/extension.tar.gz
   ```

2. Upgrade the Helm release:
   ```bash
   helm upgrade argocd argo/argo-cd -f helm-values.yaml -n argocd
   ```

3. The extension will be automatically downloaded and installed on the next pod restart.

## Uninstallation

```bash
helm uninstall argocd -n argocd
```

No ConfigMap cleanup needed - the extension is downloaded directly from GitHub!

## Configuration

All configuration is done via `helm-values.yaml`:

- **Proxy Extension**: Enabled via `configs.params.server.enable.proxy.extension: "true"`
- **Backend URL**: Configured in `server.config.extension.config` (hardcoded to Postman Echo)
- **RBAC**: Configured in `configs.rbac.policy.csv`
- **Extension Installer**: Configured in `server.initContainers`
- **Volumes**: Configured in `server.volumes` and `server.volumeMounts`

## Troubleshooting

### Extension not loading

1. Check the init container logs:
   ```bash
   kubectl logs -n argocd <argocd-server-pod> -c argocd-extension-installer
   ```

2. Verify the extension URL is accessible:
   ```bash
   curl -I https://github.com/venkatamutyala/argocd-glueops-extension/releases/download/v1.0.0/extension.tar.gz
   ```

3. Check if extension file exists in pod:
   ```bash
   kubectl exec -n argocd <argocd-server-pod> -- ls -lh /tmp/extensions/resources/app-links-extension/
   ```

### Proxy extension not working

1. Verify proxy is enabled:
   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap argocd-cmd-params-cm -n argocd -o yaml | grep proxy
   ```

2. Check backend configuration:
   ```bash
   kubectl get configmap argocd-cm -n argocd -o yaml | grep -A 5 extension.config
   ```
